README.md, before:

# Collaborative-Distillation
Official PyTorch code for our CVPR-20 poster paper "[Collaborative Distillation for Ultra-Resolution Universal Style Transfer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.08436)", where we propose a new knowledge distillation method to reduce VGG-19 filters, realizing the ultra-resolution universal style transfer on a single 12GB GPU. We focus on model compression instead of new stylization schemes. For stylization, our method builds upon [WCT](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6642-universal-style-transfer-via-feature-transforms.pdf).

<center><img src="UHD_stylized.jpg" width="1000" hspace="10"></center>
<center>One stylized sample of 10240 x 4096 pixels</center>

## Environment
- python==3.6.9
- pytorch==0.4.1 (please do not use 1.x versions, since we will need the `load_lua` feature)
- torchvision==0.2.1
- CUDA + cuDNN

## Test (style transfer)

**Step 1: Prepare images**
- Contents are placed in `PytorchWCT/content`, where ultra-res contents are placed in `PytorchWCT/content/UHD_content`. Same path setting for the styles. 
- Since the ultra-res images can be quite large, we only place two samples in this repo. For more ultra-res contents and styles presented in our paper, please download them from this [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12gGM0yszAVrcN6owf6P4XbVYgyLhW8Vf?usp=sharing).
> Image copyrights: We use the UHD images from [this wallpaper website](http://wallpaperswide.com/). All copyrights are attributed to them and thanks to them!

**Step 2: Prepare models**
- For original WCT: Download the unpruned [models](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8_MZ8a8aoSeWm9HSTdXNE9Eejg/view) (which are from the [official WCT implementation](https://github.com/Yijunmaverick/UniversalStyleTransfer)). Unzip and place them under `trained_models/original_wct_models`.
- For ultra-resolution WCT: We use our pruned VGG-19. The models are already in the `trained_models/wct_se_16x_new` (for encoders) and `trained_models/wct_se_16x_new_sd` (for decoders).

**Step 3: Stylization**

Under the `PytorchWCT` folder, please run the following scripts. The stylized results will be saved in `PytorchWCT/stylized_results`.
```
# use original VGG-19, normal images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode original

# use original VGG-19, ultra-res images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode original --UHD

# use our pruned VGG-19, normal images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x

# use our pruned VGG-19, ultra-res images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x --UHD

# if your gpu ram cannot afford some very large content, try to test at a lower resolution, say
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x --UHD --content_size 3000
```

In default, the above scripts will test all possible content-style combinations (i.e., for 3 contents with 4 styles, there will be 3x4 stylzed results). If you only want to test a specific pair, say, content "green_park-wallpaper-3840x2160.jpg" with style "Vincent_2K.jpg",  you can use the option `--picked_content_mark` and `--picked_style_mark` to select specific pairs. E.g., the following will only choose the content whose name includes "green_park" and the style whose name includes "Vincent".
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x --UHD --picked_content_mark green_park --picked_style_mark Vincent
```

## Train (model compressiom)

**Step 1: Prepare dataset**

Download the [MS-COCO 2014 training set](http://cocodataset.org/#download) and unzip it at path `data/COCO/train2014`.

**Step 2: Prepare models**
- For training the SE (i.e., small encoder), we need the original decoder (a.k.a. big decoder or BD). We trained our own BD following the WCT paper. You can download them from [this google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1qo2dv9bKJxS8xiThzp-PFe7ClHWS3Lhx?usp=sharing) and put them at path `trained_models/our_BD`.


**Step 3: Train the compressed encoders**

Under the root folder, run
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 5 -p wct_se_stage5
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 4 -p wct_se_stage4
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 3 -p wct_se_stage3
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 2 -p wct_se_stage2
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 1 -p wct_se_stage1
```
- The log and trained models will be saved in a new-built project folder under `Experiments`.
- `--base` is to specify the base models we employ for weight initialization to accelerate training, which are obtained by pruning the filters of the least L1-norms (see also [2017-ICLR-Filter Pruning](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=rJqFGTslg))

**Step 4: Train the corresponding decoders**

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 5 -p wct_sd_stage5 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 4 -p wct_sd_stage4 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 3 -p wct_sd_stage3 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 2 -p wct_sd_stage2 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 1 -p wct_sd_stage1 --SE <SE path>
```
- `<SE path>` is to specify the small encoder model trained in Step 2. A path example for stage5 is 'Experiments/*wct_se_stage5*/weights/*.pth'

## Results
<center><img src="PytorchWCT/style/UHD_style/Vincent_2K.png" width="400" hspace="10"></center>

<center><img src="PytorchWCT/content/UHD_content/green_park-wallpaper-3840x2160.jpg" width="400" hspace="10"></center>

<center><img src="PytorchWCT/stylized_results/20181122-1715_1_green_park-wallpaper-3840x2160+Vincent_2K.jpg" width="400" hspace="10"></center>


### Acknowledgments
In this code we refer to the following implementations: [PytorchWCT](https://github.com/sunshineatnoon/PytorchWCT), [UniversalStyleTransfer](https://github.com/Yijunmaverick/UniversalStyleTransfer), [pytorch-AdaIN](https://github.com/naoto0804/pytorch-AdaIN), [AdaIN-style](https://github.com/xunhuang1995/AdaIN-style). Great thanks to them!

### Reference
Please cite this in your publication if our work helps your research. Should you have any questions, welcome to reach out to Huan Wang (wang.huan@northeastern.edu).

    @inproceedings{wang2020collaborative,
      Author = {Wang, Huan and Li, Yijun and Wang, Yuehai and Hu, Haoji and Yang, Ming-Hsuan},
      Title = {Collaborative Distillation for Ultra-Resolution Universal Style Transfer},
      Booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
      Year = {2020}
    }

Commit message:

added content_size and style_size, update md

README.md, after:

# Collaborative-Distillation
Official PyTorch code for our CVPR-20 poster paper "[Collaborative Distillation for Ultra-Resolution Universal Style Transfer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.08436)", where we propose a new knowledge distillation method to reduce VGG-19 filters, realizing the ultra-resolution universal style transfer on a single 12GB GPU. We focus on model compression instead of new stylization schemes. For stylization, our method builds upon [WCT](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6642-universal-style-transfer-via-feature-transforms.pdf).

<center><img src="UHD_stylized.jpg" width="1000" hspace="10"></center>
<center>One stylized sample of 10240 x 4096 pixels</center>

## Environment
- python==3.6.9
- pytorch==0.4.1 (please do not use 1.x versions, since we will need the `load_lua` feature)
- torchvision==0.2.1
- CUDA + cuDNN

## Test (style transfer)

**Step 1: Prepare images**
- Contents are placed in `PytorchWCT/content`, where ultra-res contents are placed in `PytorchWCT/content/UHD_content`. Same path setting for the styles. 
- Since the ultra-res images can be quite large, we only place two samples in this repo. For more ultra-res contents and styles presented in our paper, please download them from this [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12gGM0yszAVrcN6owf6P4XbVYgyLhW8Vf?usp=sharing).
> Image copyrights: We use the UHD images from [this wallpaper website](http://wallpaperswide.com/). All copyrights are attributed to them and thanks to them!

**Step 2: Prepare models**
- For original WCT: Download the unpruned [models](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8_MZ8a8aoSeWm9HSTdXNE9Eejg/view) (which are from the [official WCT implementation](https://github.com/Yijunmaverick/UniversalStyleTransfer)). Unzip and place them under `trained_models/original_wct_models`.
- For ultra-resolution WCT: We use our pruned VGG-19. The models are already in the `trained_models/wct_se_16x_new` (for encoders) and `trained_models/wct_se_16x_new_sd` (for decoders).

**Step 3: Stylization**

- Under the `PytorchWCT` folder, please run the following scripts. The stylized results will be saved in `PytorchWCT/stylized_results`.
```
# use original VGG-19, normal images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode original

# use original VGG-19, ultra-res images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode original --UHD

# use our pruned VGG-19, normal images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x

# use our pruned VGG-19, ultra-res images
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x --UHD

# you can change the content and style size via '--content_size' and '--style_size'
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x --UHD --content_size 3000 --style_size 2000
```

In default, the above scripts will test all possible content-style combinations (i.e., for 3 contents with 4 styles, there will be 3x4 stylzed results). If you only want to test a specific pair, say, content "green_park-wallpaper-3840x2160.jpg" with style "Vincent_2K.jpg",  you can use the option `--picked_content_mark` and `--picked_style_mark` to select specific pairs. E.g., the following will only choose the content whose name includes "green_park" and the style whose name includes "Vincent".
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python WCT.py --debug --mode 16x --UHD --picked_content_mark green_park --picked_style_mark Vincent
```

## Train (model compressiom)

**Step 1: Prepare dataset**

Download the [MS-COCO 2014 training set](http://cocodataset.org/#download) and unzip it at path `data/COCO/train2014`.

**Step 2: Prepare models**

For training the SE (small encoder), we need the original decoder (big decoder or BD). We trained our own BD following the [WCT paper](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6642-universal-style-transfer-via-feature-transforms.pdf). You can download them from [this google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1qo2dv9bKJxS8xiThzp-PFe7ClHWS3Lhx?usp=sharing) and put them at path `trained_models/our_BD`.


**Step 3: Train the compressed encoders**

Under the root folder, run
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 5 -p wct_se_stage5
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 4 -p wct_se_stage4
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 3 -p wct_se_stage3
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 2 -p wct_se_stage2
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_se --pretrained_init --screen --stage 1 -p wct_se_stage1
```
- The log and trained models will be saved in a new-built project folder under `Experiments`.
- `--pretrained_init` is to indicate using base models for initialization, which are obtained by pruning the filters with the least L1-norms (see also [2017-ICLR-Filter Pruning](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=rJqFGTslg))

**Step 4: Train the corresponding decoders**

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 5 -p wct_sd_stage5 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 4 -p wct_sd_stage4 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 3 -p wct_sd_stage3 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 2 -p wct_sd_stage2 --SE <SE path>
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --mode wct_sd --pretrained_init --screen --lw_percep 0.01 --stage 1 -p wct_sd_stage1 --SE <SE path>
```
- `<SE path>` is to specify the small encoder model trained in Step 2. A path example for stage5 is `Experiments/*wct_se_stage5*/weights/*.pth`

## Results
<center><img src="PytorchWCT/style/UHD_style/Vincent_2K.png" width="400" hspace="10"></center>

<center><img src="PytorchWCT/content/UHD_content/green_park-wallpaper-3840x2160.jpg" width="400" hspace="10"></center>

<center><img src="PytorchWCT/stylized_results/20181122-1715_1_green_park-wallpaper-3840x2160+Vincent_2K.jpg" width="400" hspace="10"></center>


### Acknowledgments
In this code we refer to the following implementations: [PytorchWCT](https://github.com/sunshineatnoon/PytorchWCT), [UniversalStyleTransfer](https://github.com/Yijunmaverick/UniversalStyleTransfer), [pytorch-AdaIN](https://github.com/naoto0804/pytorch-AdaIN), [AdaIN-style](https://github.com/xunhuang1995/AdaIN-style). Great thanks to them!

### Reference
Please cite this in your publication if our work helps your research. Should you have any questions, welcome to reach out to Huan Wang (wang.huan@northeastern.edu).

    @inproceedings{wang2020collaborative,
      Author = {Wang, Huan and Li, Yijun and Wang, Yuehai and Hu, Haoji and Yang, Ming-Hsuan},
      Title = {Collaborative Distillation for Ultra-Resolution Universal Style Transfer},
      Booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
      Year = {2020}
    }
